# Ways-for-Instructors-to-Create-an-Engaging-Virtual-Experience-in-the-Online-Classroom
The transition into the virtual world poses new and exciting problems for teachers who are used to teaching in front of a classroom. How does one maintain the same level of engagement with students when they are no longer physically present? So, what are some of the finest practises that teachers can use in the online classroom? For educators wishing to improve their approach, here are eight suggestions for best practises and observations: Hybrid and completely online learning environments are producing equivalent student learning outcomes. Giving learners control over their interactions with media and fostering learner reflection can both improve online learning.  When students seek online learning as individuals, it promotes learner action, learner reflection, and self-monitoring of comprehension are successful. When students are learning online in groups, support mechanisms like leading questions tend to influence how they interact, but not how much they learn. These strategies are more effective when used on an individual basis. Using data from Outcome based education solutions to change instructions, adapt to different learning styles, and intervene early when a student is having trouble. The time that would normally be spent on lesson planning in a traditional classroom can be redirected towards curriculum management solutions connecting with students and providing feedback. To enable different learning routes and enhanced accessibility, present learning resources in a variety of media, such as laboratories, video, and text.  Commiting to a continuous development in both the curriculum and the use of technology in the classroom. Teaching in online classroom management can be an exciting, dynamic, and engaging experience, even if it takes some getting used to.In core topics, students who learn online perform just as well as their peers, and our collective understanding of what makes for an excellent virtual learning/teaching experience is improving. To know more: https://digi-val.com/blog/Instructors-create-engaging-virtual-experience-in-online-classroom
